Four Key Components of new managerial mind-set values---;;;Perpetual Innovation---how rapidly and consistently new, information-intensive technologies replace older ones;;;Four Underlying Assumptions of the I/O Model---1. The external environment imposes pressures and constraints that determine the strategies that would result in above-average returns.
2. Most firms competing within an industry or within a segment of that industry are assumed to control similar strategically relevant resources and to pursue similar strategies in light of those resources.
3. Firms assume that their resources are highly mobile, meaning that any resource differences that might develop between firms will be short-lived.
4. Organizational decision makers are rational individuals who are committed to acting in the firm's best interests, as shown by their profit-maximizing behaviors.;;;Value Chain Analysis---a template that firms use to analyze their cost position and to identify the multiple means that can be used to facilitate implementation of a chosen strategy;;;Cost Leadership Strategy---integrated set of actions taken to produce products with features that are acceptable to customers at the lowest cost, relative to that of competitors;;;Strategic Management---a process that involves managers from all parts of the organization in the formulation and the implementation of strategies and strategic goals;;;Competitive Advantage---when a firm implements a strategy that creates superior value for customers and competitors are unable to duplicate or find too costly to try to imitate;;;Vision and Mission---Ø Vision is a picture of what the firm wants to be and, in broad terms, what it wants to achieve
Ø A mission specifies the businesses in which the firm intends to compete and the customers it intends to serve;;;RBV Model---It assumes that each organization is a collection of unique resources and capabilities;;;External General Environment---Composed of dimensions in the broader society that influence an industry and the firms within it
1.Demographic
2.Economic
3.Political/legal
4.Sociocultural
5.Technological
6.Global
7.Sustainable Physical Environment;;;Strategy---an integrated and coordinated set of commitments and actions designed to exploit core competencies and gain a competitive advantage such as those enjoyed by iPhone;;;Competitive Mindset---;;;Business Model Types---Franchise Model- McDonalds
Freemium Model- Dropbox
Advertising Model- Google
Subscription Model- Netflix
Peer-to-peer Model- Airbnb;;;Competitive Landscape---the fundamental nature of competition is changing in several of the world's industries where boundaries of the industries are becoming blurred and more difficult to define;;;Strategic Management Process---The full set of commitments, decisions, and actions required for a firm to achieve strategic competitiveness and earn above-average returns.;;;Resources and Capabilities---the tangible and intangible assets a firm uses to choose and implement its strategies;;;A-S-P Model---Analyze, Strategy, Performance
A frim analyzes the external environment and its internal organization then formulates and implements strategies to achieve a desired level of performance;;;VRINE Model---Analytical framework suggesting that a firm with resources and capabilities which are valuable, rare, inimitable, nonsubstitutable, and exploitable will gain a competitive advantage.;;;Tangible Assets---assets that can be observed and quantified
1. Financial
2.Organzational
3. Physical
4. Technological;;;Intangible Assets---Assets that are relatively difficult for competitors to analyze & imitate
1. Humans
2.Reputation
3. Innovation;;;Economies of Scale---cost reductions that occur when companies increase production;;;Economies of Scope---cost savings a firm creates by successfully sharing resources and capabilities or transferring one or more corporate-level core competencies that were developed in one of its businesses to another of its businesses;;;3 Main Stakeholder Populations---1. Capital Market
2. Product Market
3. Organizational;;;Value---A customer's subjective assessment of benefits relative to costs in determining the worth of a product;;;Business-Level Strategy---an integrated and coordinates set of commitments and actions the firm uses to gain a competitive advantage by exploiting core competencies in a specific product market;;;Corporate-Level Strategies---actions taken to gain a competitive advantage through the selection and management of a mix of business competing in several industries or product markets;;;Scanning---IDing early signal of environmental changes and trends;;;Monitoring---Detecting meaning through ongoing observations of environmental changes and trends;;;Forecasting---Developing projections of anticipated outcomes based on monitored changes and trends;;;Assessing---Determining the timing and importance of environmental changes and trends for firms' strategies and their management;;;Managerial Mind-set Values----Flexibility
-Speed
-Innovation
-Integration
-The challenges flowing from constantly changing conditions;;;Porter's Five Forces---1. The threat of new entrants
2. The bargaining power of buyers
3. The bargaining power of suppliers
4. The threat of substitute products and services
5. The intensity of rivalry among competitors in an industry;;;Threat of new entrants----Barriers to entry
-Retaliation expected from current industry participants;;;The power of suppliers----Increasing prices
-Reducing the quality of their products
-Manipulate availability
-Current supply chain products;;;The power of buyers----Higher quality
-Greater levels of service
-Lower prices
-Availability of goods;;;The threat of product substitutions---Goods/ services external to an industry with similar or same function;;;The intensity of rivalry among competing firms----A firm is challenged by a competitor's actions
-A company recognizes an opportunity to improve its market position;;;